fly atalses post added (#515)
brainglobe/brainglobe.github.io: docs/source/blog/vfb-jrc2018-fly-atlases-added.md

---
blogpost: true
date: July 12, 2026
author: Amirreza Bahramani
location: London, UK
category: brainglobe
language: English
---

# Two Virtual Fly Brain atlases of the adult fruit fly nervous system have been added to BrainGlobe

Two atlases based on the JRC2018 unisex templates are now available through
BrainGlobe, bringing complementary views of the adult fruit fly
(_Drosophila melanogaster_) nervous system into the same software ecosystem.
Both atlases use data from [Virtual Fly Brain
(VFB)](https://www.virtualflybrain.org/) and the unbiased, symmetric templates
described by [Bogovic et al. (2020)](https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0236495).
One provides VFB-painted neuropil ROI annotations for the adult brain; the
other provides neuropil and domain annotations for the adult ventral nerve
cord (VNC).

![Selected regions from the JRC2018Unisex brain neuropils and VNC atlases](./images/vfb-jrc2018u-fly-atlases-brainrender.png)

**Figure 1. Selected labelled regions visualised with `brainrender`: brain
neuropils AL, CA, IPS, and LOP (left), and VNC domains WTct, HTct, and mVAC
(right). The root meshes are shown as outlines.**

## JRC2018Unisex brain neuropils atlas

> The brain atlas packages the [JRC2018Unisex adult fly brain template and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This atlas includes the [JRC2018Unisex adult fly brain template and
```
